# Executive Summary

UNIVERSEH, the European Space University for Earth and Humanity, associates five Higher Education Institutions comprising three comprehensive and two technical universities: Université de Toulouse (France), Université du Luxembourg (Luxembourg), Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf (Germany), Luleå Tekniska Universitet (Sweden) and Akademia Górniczo-Hutnicza im. Stanisława Staszica w Krakowie (Poland).

The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states: ‘Everyone has the right to education’ and article 165(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union declares that the European Union action is to be aimed at ‘encouraging mobility of students and teachers, by encouraging, inter alia, the academic recognition of diplomas and periods of study; promoting cooperation between educational establishments; and developing exchanges of information and experience on issues common to the education systems of the Member States’. The alliance is fully committed to these declarations and will actively contribute, through its joint long-term strategy, to boost the Bologna process and fulfil the European Education Area’s objectives.

UNIVERSEH will set forth education and culture that will drive economic growth, job creation, improve social cohesion and enhance European identity in its diversity. To reach these long-term objectives, we will embrace the ‘Renewed EU agenda for higher education’ (COM/2017/0247) and contribute to the four priorities identified:
- Align skills development in higher education with the needs of the labour market;
- Make higher education widely accessible, more inclusive and increase its societal outreach;
- Boost the innovation capacity of higher education;
- Increase the effectiveness and efficiency of higher education”.

Towards this end, we have decided to focus on a specific field: “Space”. As noted by Paul Weissenberg, Deputy Director General of the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Enterprise and Industry “Investing in space today means investing in growth, employment and innovation tomorrow”. Space activities in the EU contribute to meeting key societal challenges, job and industrial growth and ensuring EU autonomy. For this reason, the Alliance will be guided by the concept of “Space for all”. The night sky and dreams of travel into space inspired myths and legends and artists long before the space age. Stars were the main means of finding direction and navigating before the compass and GPS. Through the ages, Space has inspired especially, but not only, cultural and artistic works and technology innovation. Therefore, it has the potential to concern all students and researchers as this field covers a broad range of subjects and applications, for example, design of space habitat concepts for the moon or mars, psychosocial and health challenges of living in Space, law governing space-related activities, Astronomical art, Space engineering... Therefore, we are convinced that building a comprehensive European University around the theme “Space” in all its dimensions (Science and Engineering; Economy, Business and Finance; Medicine and Health; Social and Human Sciences; Art and Cultural Studies; Innovation; Patents and Entrepreneurship) will lay the foundations to build innovative employment-oriented curricula and will foster mobility, inclusion and multilingualism. This will lead not only to train highly-skilled students to match the current and future needs in this field but also to contribute to the regional development and ensure the EU remains a global leader in the space domain.

## A JOINT LONG-TERM STUDENT-CENTERED VISION FOR EDUCATION
### THE EUROPEAN SPACE UNIVERSITY FOR EARTH AND HUMANITY
Europe has historically been at the forefront of space exploration. European academic and scientific excellence has brought revolutionary technology advancements and expanded humankind’s scientific knowledge. However, the international space context is changing fast. An important global competition is present with new contestants bringing new ambitions. Space, and space activities, are becoming increasingly commercial with key private stakeholders, disrupting an almost 50-year old business model. Reductions in cost of accessing or exploiting space have been fundamentally observed. Technological changes such as digitalisation and artificial intelligence and new types of reusable spacecrafts allow the emergence of a “New Space”, or entrepreneurial space, encompassing a globally emerging private spaceflight industry. “*New Space is a global trend encompassing an emerging investment philosophy and a series of technological advancements leading to the development of a private space industry largely driven by commercial motivations*”[^European Investment Bank (2019) The future of the European space sector].
		
Furthermore, Space is an enabler for several vertical industry processes. For instance, space-based infrastructure projects such as Galileo and Copernicus serve as precursors for many space-related applications in different areas (location-based services, agriculture, natural disasters, health...). Thus, the space industry provides important incentives for other technologies, with a new value proposition for innovation, intellectual property, and consequently global business opportunities.

In this “New Space” business arena, comprehensive higher education is critically needed to realize the above-mentioned ambitions. Student-centred and innovative educational approaches are key for transferring research-based innovative knowledge, competences and skills to take the next wave of this revolutionary approach to space exploration and use.

Focusing on Space education, research and innovation in EU will address key societal challenges, nurture job and industrial growth and ensure EU autonomy. This will also contribute to address the growing need for high skilled workers and more labour market relevant skills to ensure productivity growth and competitiveness[^[https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/european-semester_thematic-factsheet_skills-for-labour-market_en_0.pdf](https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/european-semester_thematic-factsheet_skills-for-labour-market_en_0.pdf)]. Since 2015, opportunities for highly-skilled individuals have grown and this will continue at least until 20253. 40% of European employers have expressed difficulty finding people with the right skills[^European Commission (2016) A New Skills Agenda for Europe.]. Students are concerned by the mismatch between what they learn and the skills they need for work[^[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52017DC0247#footnote10](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52017DC0247#footnote10)]. The European Commission also calls for developing digital competences and skills. In this context, higher education institutions have a vital role to train highlyskilled students to match the current and future needs on the labour market.

Within the Space strategy for Europe and the New skills agenda for Europe, UNIVERSEH will assemble European, knowledge-creating teams of students, learners, academics, researchers, businesses, regional and civil society stakeholders to:
- Offer innovative and multi-disciplinary courses to train students for the jobs of today and tomorrow;
- Support entrepreneurship and innovation;
- Develop digital, open science and transferable skills among students and researchers;
- Contribute to match skills of graduates with the requirements of the labour market;
-  Break the real and perceived barriers between academic and other sectors;
- Strengthen the European Union as a global leader in the space domain.

These objectives will be achieved through the installation of a comprehensive university alliance, UNIVERSEH. The members of UNIVERSEH are convinced that a challenge-based and multidisciplinary approach will bring together resources and knowledge across different fields, technologies and disciplines, including social sciences and the humanities. UNIVERSEH will also support research, innovation and development of skills by encouraging horizontal synergies and multidisciplinary approaches. UNIVERSEH will offer student-centred, personalized and flexible curricula of use for the space sector but also for the society in general. The following academic fields will be considered: Science and Engineering; Economy, Business and Finance; Medicine and Health; Social and Human Sciences; Art and Cultural Studies and Innovation; Patents and Entrepreneurship. Specific content related to the major segments of the space field will be developed. Four significant components have been identified:

**Space for societal challenges**: EU space policy aims to tackle some of the most pressing challenges today, such as fighting climate change or managing natural resources. Space technology, data and services have proven to be indispensable in the life of Europeans and for sustainable development. For example, EU space data is transforming our daily lives with services such as: increasing efficiency in agriculture and fisheries, helping regions and people access knowledge and information, improving crisis response, protecting the environment and helping to tackle climate change, increasing security, improving citizens’ health, optimising transport .

**Space Sustainability**: Working on sustainable space is essential to guarantee the ability of all human beings to continue to use outer space over the long term. There is a need to make the space sector more sustainable and to work on how technology and the environment can thrive together. UNIVERSEH is also conscious that the proliferation of space debris remains the most serious risk of the sustainability of space activities and will contribute to the European effort to address this issue. Moreover, access to space in a sustainable way is a key challenge to be addressed for the future missions.

**Space exploration**: During ESA’s Council at ministerial level (Space19+ organised in 2019), the Member states committed to space exploration through their involvement in the International Space Station until 2030 and in “Space Gateway,” the first space station to orbit the Moon. European astronauts will fly to the Moon for the first time. Member States have confirmed their support to the ground-breaking Mars Sample Return mission, in cooperation with NASA. Consequently, space exploration is a major priority and UNIVERSEH will contribute to the EU’s effort in this strategic domain.

**Space resources & Settlement**: Humans living and working beyond Earth is a subject that raises interest, questions and some apprehension. Over the past years, the concept of permanent, autonomous human habitation of locations outside Earth (Moon, Mars, in orbit) has been the subjects of literary, scientific or artistic work. Training and research in space exploration could contribute to different domains such as protection of Earth's environment, medicine, agriculture and space economy. Likewise, enhancing visionary ideas and research could lead to breakthroughs that might contribute to innovative aerospace concepts.

### TOWARDS EARTH AND HUMANITY: A CHALLENGE-DRIVEN UNIVERSITY
Higher education is vital in sustainable development. It equips students with the (pre)-requisite knowledge, skills, attitudes and values to create a sustainable future. According to UNESCO, education for sustainable development "empowers people to change the way they think and work towards a sustainable future". UNIVERSEH commits to contribute to the European Green deal (e.g. clean energy, sustainable industry, biodiversity, eliminating pollution) and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) and 169 associated targets. UNIVERSEH will have a particular focus not only on SDG4 which aims to “By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university.” but also on gender equality (SDG5); decent work and economic growth (SDG8) and climate change (SDG13).

UNIVERSEH will promote civic engagement and reinforce training and research in culture, space technologies, infrastructure, services and data which contribute to provide the EU with the tools needed to address societal challenges and global concerns. For example, climate change has been identified by the EU Space Strategy as one of the biggest challenges that Europe is facing, which highlights the crucial role Space can play in tackling it. Earth observation makes possible to monitor the complex variables involved, which has changed the perception of our impact on the environment.

UNIVERSEH will develop training and skill acquisition, enhance research in Earth observation, by valorising the experience gained from the EU project Fabspace 2.0 led by one of the members of UNIVERSEH; it was aimed at making universities open innovation centres for their regions and improving their contribution to the performance of societies. Further, our associated partner NEREUS (Network of European Regions Using Space Technologies) is involved in the project EO4GEO 'Towards an innovative strategy for skills development and capacity building in the space geo-information sector supporting Copernicus user uptake’. Earth observation is a key component of UNIVERSEH space actions.
### AN ENTREPRENEURIAL AND INNOVATIVE EUROPEAN UNIVERSITY
To respond to the social and economic needs of society and societal challenges, Higher education institutions must adapt and improve their trainings and curricula, as youth employment is a major concern. The EU has identified fostering of youth entrepreneurship as a tool to combat youth unemployment and social exclusion as well as stimulating innovation among young people. UNIVERSEH has the ambition to become an entrepreneurial and innovative European university.

The alliance will promote entrepreneurship through education and business start-up support. UNIVERSEH will train students from having innovative and creative minds, entrepreneurial skills and knowledge to the creation of their own businesses. Current courses, programs and initiatives and lessons- learned to design and from external stakeholders will set the base for a high-quality entrepreneurial curriculum. This shared, common curriculum will provide all students with multiple formal and informal learning opportunities and experiences to develop their innovative and entrepreneurial mind-sets and business skills, with an optional specialisation in the space field.

UNIVERSEH will collaborate with local incubators, including two innovative business incubators accredited by the European Space Agency (ESA BIC Sud France and ESA Bic Sweden). In parallel, our long-term ambition is to lay the foundation for a future European “student entrepreneur” status, already implemented in a few European countries such as France.
Following the recommendations of the New skills agenda for Europe, promoting work-based learning such as apprenticeships and internships needs to be a priority for higher education institutions. UNIVERSEH will encourage apprenticeships and internships in the network of associated partners which have formally committed to share opportunities with our students.

Finally, we will implement and monitor new innovative educational models such as microlearning, student-to-student teaching and learning, virtual class. The Alliance will also work on making it easier for students to customise their choice of where and what to study within a formal educational framework. The objective is to share with other higher education institutions the lessons-learned and best practices on entrepreneurship and innovation. In the long-term, a guideline to implement these ways of teaching and how to adjust them to different contexts will be developed. Simultaneously, UNIVERSEH will embed digital technology into the common curriculum.

Lastly, space research, which is cardinal for all members of the Alliance, will nurture common curricula elaboration and content. Science outcome will also be the cornerstone of new knowledge creation and communication to learners and society on the whole.

### UNIVERSEH SHARING COMMON VALUES AND COMMITMENTS
#### European values and inclusive education
UNIVERSEH commits to common European values as enshrined in article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The UNIVERSEH alliance is conscious that Education plays a pivotal role in promoting common values and believe that all students should have a strong consciousness of their identity as a European, of Europe’s history and its diversity. Therefore, students and learners should discover Europe's common cultural heritage and diversity, and have a strong understanding of the origins and functioning of the European Union and its institutions. Following the Council recommendation of 22 May 2018 on promoting common values, inclusive education, and the European dimension of teaching, a common course will be offered to all students and staff going abroad. This course will include learning outcomes not only on European history, European values and culture origins but also the functioning of the European institutions. Our ambition is that this course be taught to all students in a long-term objective.

UNIVERSEH will systematise collaborative projects and activities that will bring together students from the different EU countries. The objective is to enhance cooperation and work within different European and global cultures, in different languages, across borders, industrial sectors or businesses and academic disciplines.

UNIVERSEH agrees that ensuring effective equal access to quality inclusive education and providing the necessary support to all learners according to their particular needs is essential. More cohesive societies need learners from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds, those from a migrant background, those with special needs — in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities —, all are key for reaching this objective [^Council recommendation of 22 May 2018 on promoting common values, inclusive education, and the European dimension of teaching.]. UNIVERSEH will build on the local initiatives, harmonize the best practices at the alliance level and will go beyond to become a role model of good practices for other higher education institutions.
The Alliance will have a particular focus on learner mobility, and will ensure that all students, without distinction, have the possibility to study, train and learn abroad.
Mobility and Multilingualism

The Erasmus+ programme demonstrates that mobility and cross-border contacts are efficient ways to experience European identity. Studies show that young people who study or train abroad find employment much more quickly than those without international experience. They adapt more quickly to new situations and are better problem solvers[^Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions (2016) A New skills agenda for Europe.]. Through the Erasmus+ programme, student mobility in higher education has already a long-standing tradition. However, more students should benefit from a learning experience abroad. In May 2018, the Commission adopted a proposal for a new Erasmus+ programme, doubling the programme’s budget. The new programme is expected to enable millions of young Europeans from all social backgrounds to study, train and learn abroad. UNIVERSEH will support this initiative and embraces the European Commission’s vision for a European Education area and its objective that spending time abroad to study and learn should become the norm. To work on this longterm objective, UNIVERSEH is aware that not only promoting European and national funding opportunities is needed but also guaranteeing the quality of work or study placements is essential: the consortium commits to work on these aspects. Additionally, UNIVERSEH will develop virtual mobility in combination with physical mobility.

In complement to mobility, UNIVERSEH will contribute to the European Education Area’s ambition of knowing two languages in addition to one’s mother tongue. Our alliance will implement the EU's motto ‘united in diversity’ that symbolises that languages unite people, render other countries and their cultures accessible, and strengthen intercultural understanding. Foreign language skills also play an essential role in enhancing employability and mobility. Multilingualism also improves the competitiveness of the EU economy.

Following the Council recommendation of 22 May 2019 on a comprehensive approach to the teaching and learning of languages, UNIVERSEH will put a strong effort towards the improvement of students, researchers and staff’s language skills, with the long term aim that all have a working knowledge of two foreign languages

## AN ALLIANCE TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE COOPERATION – BEYOND THREE YEARS
###  STRENGTHENING OUR COLLABORATION: PAVING THE WAY
We are conscious that each member of the consortium has a different local context that needs to be taken into account. UNIVERSEH will establish a governance based on a participative principle where each position will be heard and considered.

The first three years, we will focus on strengthening our collaboration. The alliance currently works together through bilateral Erasmus+ agreements and research projects, such as H2020 or Erasmus+ International Credit Mobility. We will go beyond by enhancing staff mobility and developing strong interactions within the Alliance. We will evaluate the common, shared, existing and future needs within the universities and find together efficient solutions to be implemented at the Alliance level. This will be made possible by the organisation of seminars for staff to meet respective counterparts allowing exchange of best practices and tools and improving their language abilities. Students will also take part in the development and implementation of the alliance’s actions through the student board and their representatives in the governing board, academic board, the steering committee and quality assurance committee.
Moreover, UNIVERSEH’s teaching staff will work together on making available an increasing number of courses to students enrolled in partners’ universities and on building new UNIVERSEH study programs. UNIVERSEH builds a strong network of associated partners, both local and European, from public and private sectors, who support the actions and will collaborate on developing, implementing and promoting them. This will lead to new partnerships and innovation that will also benefit research collaboration. By sharing scientific infrastructures, enhancing strong collaboration and lowering administrative barriers, UNIVERSEH paves the way to a strong cooperation in research, especially in the space field.
### A SUSTAINABLE ALLIANCE: FIVE UNIVERSITIES, FIVE COUNTRIES, ONE INTER-UNIVERSITY ‘CAMPUS’
UNIVERSEH, as one inter-university ‘campus‘, envisions its governance as a structure to enable and facilitate the establishment and development of projects in education, research innovation and valorisation. UNIVERSEH sees the approach as bottom-up, to facilitate emergence of ideas and adherence to the project, as well as the transmission of decisions to the universities. A balanced relationship between the central bodies and committees on one side and the decentralized structures on the other is also needed.

The following scheme is therefore privileged:

**missing figure**

Inherently, the decisions of the governing and advisory bodies of UNIVERSEH are also anchored at the level of the governing structures of the member universities. In this sense, the values of UNIVERSEH – mobility, equality, autonomy, transparency - guide its governance and serve as fundamental principles for cooperation between all members of the Alliance.

### TOWARDS A EUROPEAN HIGHER EDUCATION INTER-UNIVERSITY ‘CAMPUS’
Student mobility and European diploma recognition are two key features of higher education integration, but it needs simplified, traceable and resilient processes. The smooth recognition of prior learning is an essential condition for encouraging mobility between the members of the Alliance. This is why UNIVERSEH will simplify considerably the mutual recognition of students prior learning by collecting and analysing examples of existing good practices and obstacles. On this basis, bilateral agreements on the recognition of prior learning will then be developed between the university faculties, departments and components members.

Furthermore, the cooperation between the five universities will make it possible to expand considerably the range of training courses available to students. Lecturers will have the opportunity to offer their training courses at all member universities and to develop common curricula. Thus, the diversity and complementarity of training offers will generate synergies, offering more possibilities in education and training, and increasing the attractiveness of UNIVERSEH.

## Conclusion
In line with the Space strategy for Europe and the New skills agenda for Europe, UNIVERSEH will shape European knowledge-producing teams of students, leaners, academics, researchers, businesses, region and civil society stakeholders to achieve the following:
- Enhance mobility and multilingualism;
- Offer innovative and multi-disciplinary courses to train students for the jobs of today and
tomorrow;
- Make higher education systems inclusive and more connected to society;
- Develop digital, open science and transferable skills among students and researchers;
- Contribute to match the skills of graduates with the needs of the labour market;
- Strengthen the European Union as a global leader in the space domain.

By becoming a sustainable, innovative and leading European University, the European Space University for Earth and Humanity will progressively foster teaching, learning and research, particularly in the space sector in the European Union.