

# Proposal

## Long term vision
## Ambition level during the 3-year funding period
In 3 years, the Alliance will be recognised as **a comprehensive European Space University for Earth and Humanity** considering its European higher education inter-university ‘campus‘ where:
- **New joint and flexible curricula are delivered in the space domain based on cross- disciplinary/multi-disciplinary and cross sectoral approaches.**

At the end of the three years, we will have implemented new courses and organised staff and student seminars on interdisciplinary strategies. This will be the first step towards our long-term goal to offer a complete matrix of cross- disciplinary/multi-disciplinary courses. This complete matrix will be available at each university and adapted to the fast-changing needs in the space sector and local context. The alliance will be capable of achieving this objective by reason of the quality of its members. The coordinator of this project is the Université Fédérale Toulouse Midi- Pyrénées also called **University of Toulouse**. For this project, the University of Toulouse brings together 2 universities (Toulouse II - Jean Jaurès University, Toulouse III - Paul Sabatier University), one engineering school (ISAE-SUPAERO), one research and industry-oriented University (Institut National Polytechnique de Toulouse) and one Business school (Toulouse Business School). Together, they cover a broad range of subjects: Arts, Literature and Languages, Law, Economy and Management, Humanities and Social Sciences, Science, Technology and Healthcare and Science and Technique of Physical and Sports Activities, which are all relevant for UNIVERSEH.
- **ISAE-SUPAERO** is a world leader in higher education for aerospace engineering. It has a unique range of 33 advanced higher education programs in aeronautics and space engineering mainly at Master and PhD level.
- **Toulouse INP** is constituted of six engineering schools and 17 research laboratories. The Institute delivers engineering degrees, master's degrees and PhDs (e.g. Master of Science including Aeronautics and space)
- **Toulouse Business School** (TBS) offers cutting-edge business education. TBS offer an Aerospace Management MSc to prepare and train participants to hold managerial positions in aeronautics, space and airline industries. TBS also holds The SIRIUS Chair, the first international chair dedicated to research in Law and Business Management for Activities in the Space Sector.
- **Toulouse II - Jean Jaurès University** has a long-standing tradition of humanities studies. It will bring its expertise on History, Arts, Foreign Languages, Literatures, Philosophy and Psychology. It proposes
distinctive relevant courses such as History and Heritage of Aeronautics and space and history of spatial explorations. In 2016, Toulouse Jean Jaurès University created a scientific multi-disciplinary review « Nacelles. Passé et présent de l’aéronautique et du spatial » (Nacelles. Past and Present of Aeronautics and space)
- **Toulouse III - Paul Sabatier University** teaches the whole spectrum of scientific disciplines in health, technologies sport. It offers different courses in Cosmology and Spatial technology. Paul Sabatier University to part to a Joint Master Program in Space Science and Technology – “Space Master” coordinated by LTU.

The other members of the Alliance are also recognised as major European Higher Education Institutions, also in the space sector.
- **The AGH University of Science and Technology** is one of the best Polish technical universities. AGH training in the space is well-recognised. In 2014, the AGH Space Systems team was established to develop technology for the space industry, in particular in building rockets, satellites, space probes and Martian rovers. Two AGH students have be rewarded for their work in the space field (scientific award of the President of the Polish Space Agency for the best student diploma project in the field of space engineering and competition “Konstelacje 2018” (in English: Constellations 2018) in the category “hope of space sector”). They also have strong expertise in Robotics and mining related to lunar bases.
- **The Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf** (UDUS) offer many relevant courses to the Alliance such as Medicine, Machine learning, Mediation and cultural management, Intellectual Property and Geoinformatics through its five faculties (Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, Faculty of Business and Economics and the Faculty of Law). UDUS is also close to the European Astronaut Centre, therefore, and we anticipate their support in the implementation of some activities.
- **Luleå University of Technology** is the Space University of Sweden. It organises Sweden's only 5 Master Programme in Space Engineering, as well as several popular International Master Programs within the space field (space engineering; earth atmosphere and the solar system; spacecraft design; Space science). In 2004 LTU organised an interdisciplinary and international Erasmus Mundus Joint Master Degrees Program in Space Science and Technology – SpaceMaster. The program has been successfully run 2005-2019 within the frame of the Erasmus+ under EACEA. After 2019 the program is run as a Joint Master Program in Space Science and Technology – SpaceMaster. The university has a strong and unique Arctic profile and is active in the research of the polar atmosphere.
- Likewise, Space field is a high priority for the **University of Luxembourg** (Uni.lu). Uni.lu has launched in 2019 a two-year Interdisciplinary Space Master study course, to support Luxembourg State’s strategy in Space and new Space. The Master programme aims at providing students with the required engineering skills in the space industry, along with both deep and broad knowledge to manage space-related business activities. Since 2010, Uni.lu also holds the Chair in Space, Satellite Communications and Media Law endowed by SES, to develop Luxembourg as a European centre of excellence and innovation for advanced information communications technology in satellite systems. The Master in Space, Communication and Media Law (LL.M.) complements the SES Chair.

Consequently, the unique combination of these 5 major European HEIs will allow UNIVERSEH to develop a competitive and high-quality education offer, predominantly in the space field.
- **Mobility is embedded at all level**

Within three years, the Alliance will have removed the internal barriers to mobility by offering easy access to information for mobility opportunities, by improving services for international students and by developing mobility opportunities. The establishment of strong partnerships with the members of the Alliance and public and private actors will nurture staff and student mobility, consistently with the combined efforts on mutual recognition of qualification. Additionally, the Alliance will have an overview of each university’s capacities for virtual and blended mobility, which will authorize the elaboration of action plans to foster capacities and systemically implement hybrid learning and virtual classrooms. In year 3, UNIVERSEH website will include a pilot version of the micro-learning platform plus digital experiment-based learning, as a set of digitalized real experiment to be integrated in digital learning contents for a comprehensive development after the end of the project.
- **Business-University cooperation is developed to promote Practical and/or work-based experience and to foster entrepreneurial mind-set**

At the proposal stage, the Alliance has received the support of 18 companies including major actors in the Space sector such as AIRBUS, Thales and SES. Within three years, we will have implemented collaborative activities with them, and students will have benefitted from practical and work-based opportunities. Companies’ representatives will participate to programmes’ definition to assess and develop (new) courses, and pursue the concept of European knowledge-creating team.

To foster innovative and entrepreneurial mind-set, a common module for entrepreneurship with a particular focus on the space sector will be designed and effective. Students will have access to trainings covering all entrepreneurial phases, from developing their soft skills to maturing their project in an incubator. The Alliance will also explore the potential of a European “student entrepreneur” status, inspired by the French example that is also partially implemented in Belgium. This status allows students and young graduates to launch start-ups in a particular business incubator and let students benefit from support, supervision, training and social benefits such as retention of health coverage.

- **Student involvement is a key pillar**

After 3 years, the student council will be functioning and students’ input and feedback on the alliance activities and policies will be well taken into account. Student representatives in the governing structure will have had a meaningful impact on the achievement of the long-term vision. Students will also have a central role on inclusive education in organising a yearly conference on diversity and inclusion for students by students.
- **Innovative teaching and learning play a central role**

To meet the demands of the 21st century society and become a future-ready Higher Education Institution, we will have explored flexible, dynamic and innovative approaches for teaching and learning. The Alliance will have reconsidered the conventional roles and players in education, opened to a wider range of stakeholders and communities, by creating an interactive, personalised, engaging education, including new high-tech tools. Future- proof skills and competencies needs to be part of Higher Education through personalized, digitalized knowledge transmission, and international by nature. Within the Alliance, we will have evaluated these new teaching and learning models, such as “from student to teacher” “student to student” courses, micro-learning, as well as personal learning networks.
- **Sustainable development goals are a high priority**

At the end on the pilot, the Alliance will have promoted social and civic engagement, multicultural awareness and enhanced inclusive education with a particular focus on access to mobility for all, staff and students. Moreover, environmental and green goals are now one of the Horizontal priorities in the new Erasmus+ 2020 annual work programme. Based on the future instructions, the Alliance will encourage green and environmental friendly alternatives for travelling.

Additionally, all mobile students within UNIVERSEH will have followed a course on European history and culture. We will also have reinforced education and research in culture, space technologies, reinforced infrastructure, services and data, which provide the EU with the imperative tools to address global societal challenges and concerns. This underwrites our European determination to make the space sector more sustainable.

We will conclude the 3-year operations having in place a high-quality inclusive education based on interdisciplinary approaches, resources sharing and best practices for local adaptation, with a revived collaboration in and between industry and academia. These 3-year laid foundations will accelerate research and innovation in space activities, by educating the future-proof job candidates, in academia and industry. Supported by six national space agencies (the French National Centre for Space Studies, Luxembourg Space Agency, Polish Space Agency, Swedish National Space Agency, the German Aerospace Center, Portugal Space), UNIVERSEH, as the European Space University for Earth and Humanity will contribute to the global leadership of Europe in Space and New Space.

## Current level of cooperation between the full partners of the proposed European University
The 5 partners of the UNIVERSEH alliance are already cooperating on different levels: through collaborative research projects, mainly funded by H2020, and through Erasmus+, including Erasmus Mundus Joint Master Degrees Program in Space Science and Technology – SpaceMaster.

Collaboration through **research projects** between the UNIVERSEH partners started before the start of the Horizon 2020 programme, with some FP7 projects, for example the GENESIS project (ID 226536). Under the current Horizon 2020 programme, a large number of collaborative projects bring together the research teams of the UNIVERSEH partners, as well as other EU partners, on a wide range of topics and funding schemes. The projects focus both on the field of space, with for example the AEROWORKS project (ID 644128) focusing on maintenance of aeronautic infrastructure by robots, and on education, with for example the KIC RawMaterials project EXplORE (ID 172018) aiming at establishing a MSc programme in exploration between the LTU, AGH and other European public and private partners.

Both UT (Toulouse III - Paul Sabatier University) and AGH are members of the **international network** of FabSpaces. This network stemmed for a Horizon 2020 project (FabSpace 2.0 - ID: 693210) and aims at making universities open innovation centres for their regions and improving the performance of societies, focusing on geodata-driven innovation, and space data in particular.

Collaboration through **Erasmus+** also started more than 15 years ago, as indeed the SpaceMaster was launched in 2004. Gathering LTU and UPS and four other European universities, it allows students to receive knowledge from a number of fundamental academic disciplines within one educational program, supported by academic and industrial organisations. The curricula are multidisciplinary and the students benefit from innovative learning methodologies.

Today, with more than ten **bilateral Erasmus agreements** between the universities of the UNIVERSEH consortium, the exchanges of staff and students (from undergraduate to doctorate levels) cover a large span of topics: mathematics, engineering, physical science, education science, economy, environmental and earth science...

All the above mentioned examples of cooperation agreements encompass staff exchanges, student exchanges and collaborative research, thus paving the way for the deeper collaboration planned in the framework of UNIVERSEH.

## Innovative and transformative approach of the proposal
A key element of our alliance is our unique theme around Space and New Space. This partnership around a unique topic is structural because it federates objectives, strategies and means for one endeavour, from Humanities to Life Sciences, Technology and Medicine and engineering. Rarely a subject has been so integrative since it touches all components of Earth and Humanity. By comparison, single or even multifocal cooperation are discipline-related; here, the alliance develops a new, integrating concept, which maximises the inputs from all partners, in all disciplines. The members of the Alliance will mutually benefit from the catalysis of distinct and congruent areas of knowledge to foster enhanced teaching and learning curricula open to all students of UNIVERSEH.
### Governance:
UNIVERSEH foresees a unique governance model, as a participatory virtual institution where all actors of the members will be active, more details in Work Package 1. Our fundamental objective is the constitution of a shared strategy to reach a level of success in Space and New Space which is unreachable by a single institution. We anticipate actively multiplier effects by the networking and communication between all organizational levels of the members of the alliance. All members of the Alliance are willing to share best practices and more importantly innovative practices, which will be almost immediately and proactively evaluated and tested in situ, within different academic environments. This cooperative context and the complementary strengths involved will provide new strategic and operational schemes, transferable to the members, then to other higher education institutions in Europe.
### Teaching & Learning and Mobility:
The members of UNIVERSEH have developed sound knowledge and competencies in mobility-related teaching and learning. transferring these to their students. A crucial point is the provisioning of these within UNIVERSEH members, so that they can be efficiently transmitted to first-time students and lifelong learners. By focusing on the impact of mobility, particularly for the staff (teachers and administration), we will demonstrate that the combination of shared curricula and coincident mobility are the most competitive keys to catalyse and subsequently magnify knowledge acquisition in learners by all means. This can solely be achieved in our integrated, personalized, teaching and learning proposal.
### Student life:
Study abroad through an Erasmus exchange programme may become a lifestyle for students by getting to know a lot of people Europewide, making long-life relations and developing professional network. It can be also expected that a relationship will be kept between the mobile students on the long term, which may give rise to future collaboration, if not entrepreneurial initiatives. This is precisely the social and societal added value that the alliance is wishing to generate to facilitate and foster European values in the youngest members of the partner universities. Education to European values is a non-elective feature of our common curricula to provision the generation of new Europeans, all aware of the European institutions’ existence and of the fundamental functioning of the Union.
### Staff training and mobility:
Our staff working in education, both in teaching and non-teaching capacities, will be fully integrated in the professional development activities shared by the members of the alliance. Cross-training periods abroad will comprise of job shadowing, mentoring, observation periods, professional development courses or specific competence-building events within the alliance to gain corporate and professional knowledge by watching others work. Sharing of best practices and their implementation will be the decisive catalytic advancement of the co-working, if not the integration of the functioning of the members of the alliance. By disseminating organizational understanding within the Alliance, we anticipate the creation of best managerial practice which might be fully integrated into a document & content management systems tool to archive, document and share the most efficient best practices. Value resides in information, and sharing it among all the members will catapult teaching and non-teaching capacities.
### Research for Teaching & Learning:
The members of the Alliance showed significant research output in Space and New Space (“global trend encompassing an emerging investment philosophy and a series of technological advancements leading to the development of a private space industry largely driven by commercial motivations”), and the supporting institutions and private companies are further qualifying this fact. The existence and the nature of a relation between research productivity and teaching performance of faculty has been for years at the core of a strong debate in all universities. Successful research implies several individual characteristics such as higher interest in learning and more ability to motivate students, personal curricula will certainly heighten student inspiration for Space and New Space. Besides, common wisdom usually leads to think that the best research output should also lead to excellence in teaching, since the bulk of knowledge on a given discipline is enlarged and later taught at the classroom. That is, an extensive and high-quality research activity creates good conditions for students' interest and opportunity to engage in studies, which favors good study results. A close collaboration between a strong research environment and higher education is therefore a success factor for both businesses.

## 1.5 European added value
### Alignment with objectives of the European Education Area
With the Council Recommendation, EU Member States make a political commitment to take steps to introduce **automatic recognition of academic qualifications and learning periods abroad by 2025**. UNIVERSEH partners will work towards the objective. The academic council that gathers members of each partner university will collect and analyse examples of existing good practices and obstacles. For example, following the Bologna process, all members of the alliance work with the **European Credits Transfer and Accumulation System** (ECTS). Recognition of prior learning will be further investigated with a goal to develop bilateral agreements between the university faculties and departments. The long-term goal is that all student mobility experiences within UNIVERSEH member are automatically recognised. In the future this could result in developing new common curricula in line with three-cycle system promoted by the bologna process.

UNIVERSEH will contribute to the European Education Area’s ambition of **knowing two languages in addition to one’s mother tongue**. All UNIVERSEH members currently work on developing student English skills which also is the base language for the cooperation within the UNIVERSEH. Consequently, we will focus on the acquisition of a second foreign language. We will offer the students courses in all the consortium languages (French, German, Polish, Swedish) to acquire basic language skills before leaving. They will have the opportunity to continue to improve it during their period abroad via tandem and they will have the possibility to maintain the level acquired and improve it when they will go back to their home university.

UNIVERSEH has a strong commitment to **inclusive education** as shown by our specific work package on Equity, Inclusion and diversity. Everyone should be able to access high-quality education, irrespective of their socio- economic background. UNIVERSEH will build on the local initiatives, harmonize the best practices at the alliance level and will go beyond to become a **role model for other higher education institutions**. The alliance will have a particular focus on learner mobility, and will have the ambition to ensure that all students have the possibility to study, train and learn abroad. To do so, we will collaborate with stakeholders, especially our associated partner **Erasmus Student network**, they will guide us thanks to their project Mapped that aims to provide equal opportunities to students with disabilities for their participation in the Erasmus+ Programme.

The Alliance recognizes the European commission’s objectives that by 2025, all students in Europe should be able to enjoy the benefits of the **European Student Card Initiative**. The Alliance is conscious that the European Student Card will enable seamless mobility of student within the EU. The Alliance will use a step-by-step approach. One of the WP2 task is “**UNIVERSEH going digital**”, staff from all universities will meet to discuss the implementation of the mobility tools such as European student card, **Erasmus mobility app** and **European Student eID scheme**. The University of Luxembourg will act as a role model as it has already implemented an online learning agreement system and it is part of the European University foundation partner of **Erasmus without paper**.

Following the European Standards and Guidelines’ recommendations, all UNIVERSEH training and learning activities and the learning environment will be monitored to ensure that they meet **high-quality standards**.

All students will benefit from the proposed cooperation as it will increase the mobility opportunities, develop language trainings, open a broader catalogue of courses in different field of educations within the EU. The aim is to develop Inter-universities activities and hybrid classes to increase the possibility to work and collaborate in a multicultural context. UNIVERSEH will make accessible the learning and trainings to all students. This will be developed with the representatives of the student board who will participate in the steering committee, the academic board and the governing board.

### Contribution to regional development
By supporting not only **mobility, formal and non-formal training and learning**, and s**kills development systems** in a cross-sectoral way but also the exchange of experience between industries, the higher education institutions, which are part of the alliance, will play an important regional role as key sources of **knowledge and innovation**. HEIs will contribute to regional development by contributing to a region’s comparative advantage in knowledge-based industries and to its human capital base, but also for example by helping to generate **new businesses**. In order to do so, HEIs will engage with stakeholders in their regions and contribute to the development of knowledge-intensive jobs which will enable graduates to find local employment. The theme chosen by the alliance, **Space, is a key priority for all European regions involved in the project**. All partners have regional and local supports from public institutions (Toulouse Métropole, Occitanie Région, Marshal’s Office of the Małopolska Region, Kiruna and Lulea municipalities, Noorbotten county, Mafopolska Region and Wissensregion düsseldorf) and **private stakeholders** such as important industrial companies (e.g. Thales Alenia Space, AIRBUS defence and space, SES) and local **incubators and competitive clusters** (e.g. Aerospace Valley in Toulouse, Groupement Luxembourgeois de l’Aéronautique et de l'Espace - GLAE). Some of partners have also letters of supports from governmental bodies (e.g. Ministry of Science and Higher Education and Ministry of Development in Poland, Ministry of Economy in Luxembourg) which highlights the high development potential for their regions and countries. NEREUS, a network of European regions has also agreed to be associated partner. **Six national space agencies** (the French National Centre for Space Studies, Luxembourg Space Agency, Polish Space Agency, Swedish National Space Agency, the German Aerospace Center, Portugal Space) also support the project. As a consequent, within the project, we foresee strong collaboration between regions and HEIs that will lead to regional, national and European development.

### Model of good practice and benefit to other higher education institutions
Partners for this Alliance came together on the basis of their common interest in Space and New Space shared by our five partner institutions. This common interest gives rise not only to substantial concurrence in institutional strategies and policies, but also in the context of regional and national policies. It therefore eases the sustainability of the Alliance from the important perspective of policy approaches which encourage the willingness to **work in joint initiatives**. The approach of the Alliance is to maintain our relationship beyond the lifetime of the current funding. Considering the previous collaborations of the alliance and the geographical and historical dimension of some of our partners, best practices have already been put in place to generate tangible outputs. For student mobility, UNILUX has reached more than 90% of student mobility at the bachelor level; processes and tools, some already financed by EC, will be shared through the alliance to facilitate and stimulate student and staff mobility. University of Toulouse, as well as Luleå University of Technology, have a longstanding record of industrial collaboration with premium partners in the Space sector, documented by recommendation letters. The Alliance will disseminate among its members, **guidelines** such as **consolidation of entrepreneurial approaches, recommendations on potential for joint research, on potential for joint doctoral education, and even common strategies and support structures for the implementation of a joint Graduate School**. These documented best practices will be transferred to all members of the Alliance to maximise the efficiency of the collaborating working environment. It is our intention to publish on the website of the Alliance these best practices, as part of our open data and communication commitment.

In this context of successful best practices, UNIVERSEH will also explore **collaborations and cooperation with any other 'European Universities'** that share its mission and vision for Space and New Space. Contacts will also be initiated with **recognized centres and initiatives in space education and training, research, and outreach that exist in Europe and also around the world**. Through project proposals under Erasmus+ “Higher education student and staff mobility between Programme and Partner countries” and “Capacity Building for Higher Education”, UNIVERSEH will **disseminate good practices and establish talent attraction programmes**.

UNIVERSEH, as a “European University”, will set new grounds as **a model for a strong participative structure** for other university networks, for young institutions, and yet to be created higher education institution in Europe at first. The different boards and local coordination Committees, and the student councils will ensure broad-based involvement of students and staff in UNIVERSEH policy, facilitating institutional and collective buy-in and progressive management of institutional change. This global institutional change is to be the outcome of shared best practices, transferable to the whole consortium, to European higher education institutions, and beyond.

Finally, through our equity, inclusion and diversity strategy, we aim to develop activities and best practice models that can be replicated in other alliances or universities across Europe.